Now, after astronomers found the real Vulcan exoplanet, the homeworld of Spock in Star Trek, the Star Trek fans are once again fascinated by the recent finding of a galaxy cluster shaped like the USS Enterprise spaceship from the renowned TV series. Spotted with NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory, the galactic conglomeration, depicted in the image you can see above, lurks at a distance of about 1.6 billion years away from Earth.
The galaxy cluster, Abell 1033, as NASA named it, was located using the US space agency’s Chandra X-ray Observatory, and is a cluster formed by two galaxies.
This extraordinarily energetic event, happening from top to bottom in the image, has produced turbulence and shock waves, similar to sonic booms produced by a plane moving faster than the speed of sound, explained NASA. The US space agency added that the resemblance between Abell 1033 and the USS Enterprise from Star Trek is an excellent example of pareidolia.
Galaxy Cluster In The Form Of Star Trek’s USS Enterprise Spotted By NASA’s Chandra
In Abell 1033, the structures in the data create an uncanny resemblance to many of the depictions of the fictional Starship Enterprise from Star Trek, stated NASA.
Abell 1033 is also an example of the collision of two galaxies and another cosmic phenomenon characterized by the generation of jets of high-speed particles triggered by the matter falling into the supermassive black hole located at the center of one of the two galaxies.
Besides the fact that this galaxy cluster looks like the USS Enterprise from the Star Trek TV series and movies, it is also excellent for scientific research. Abell 1033 boasts electrons that spiral around the magnetic fields and travel almost at the speed of light, indicating that they’ve been re-energized by the jets interactions with shock waves in the hot gas within the galaxies, as NASA said, cited by Daily Mail.
According to the US space agency, energetic electrons are present within Abel 1033 in larger quantities and with higher energies than the scientists previously believed.